We had to look at the platform API and the different entry points you can use
and we end up with applications
that yeah looks similar but in the end really are different, we can tell by the buttons, by the icons,
so we get differences there and it's of course on purpose that there is some similarity,
I don't want to build two totally independent and different apps. But one thing we already noticed is
that we have to do a lot of manual platform checking and then use different icons,
now thankfully react native navigation automatically adjusts the navigation features to the different
platforms like the side drawer or the nav bar and the tabs in general,
so we don't have to do that,
we get nice looks out of the box there.
Now sometimes you want to get a complete UI building block library that just uses different styles
for different platforms and does all the heavy lifting for you,
so that you just use one component like a card component and behind the scenes, it's automatically styled
for the platform the app runs on. React native doesn't have too many such libraries that really work
well, some of them are in early phases and some are not maintained anymore.
There are projects like NativeBase which promise to give you one way of writing the app and offering
just that, different layouts for different apps
and I strongly recommend diving into such projects to learn more about them and see if they are a good
fit for your next project,
just be aware that many of them are in early stages or still have quite a way to go because building
such cross-platform libraries is not straightforward, react native is changing a lot and you also have
a lot of edges
you have to take care about if you are developing such a platform. But these projects exist and I can
only recommend for you to dive into them to get some nice components which work on both platforms and
automatically get the right styling depending on where you run them,
so it is something I recommend checking out,
you'll find a link to NativeBase at the end of this lecture and you can always find more alternatives
if you just search for react native cross-platform UI library. There you will find multiple projects
which try to fix this problem and try to provide some cross-platform components,
some projects are also just focusing on one or a few components,
some try to cover them all.
So that's what I wanted to add to this topic,
now let's have a look at the other problem we faced regarding device orientation and so on.